Improve job.data, project.data (H5Store) examples. (#62)
glotzerlab/signac-docs: docs/source/jobs.rst

.. tip::

>      Use the :py:meth:`Job.document.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with python's built-in dictionaries (see :py:meth:`dict.get`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Use the :py:meth:`Job.document.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with Python's built-in dictionaries (see :py:meth:`dict.get`).
```

>      Use the :py:meth:`Job.document.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with Python's built-in dictionaries (see :py:meth:`dict.get`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Use the :py:meth:`Job.document.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values.
     This works exactly like with Python's built-in dictionaries (see :py:meth:`dict.get`).
```
Let's just add the missing line break now.

Job Data Storage
================

> Large numerical or text data can be stored in the :py:attr:`Job.data` container, which is an instance of :class:`signac.H5Store`. This container uses a file in `HDF5`_ format to store array-like or dictionary-like information.

Author: I think I fixed everything. The "tip" in `job.data` did not have a seperate line for each sentence, but it was like that when I started the PR.

Like the :py:attr:`Job.document`, this information can be accessed using key-value pairs.
Unlike the :py:attr:`Job.document`, :attr:`Job.data` is not searchable.
.. _`HDF5`: https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/HDF5

> Data written with :py:attr:`Job.data` is stored in a file named `signac_data.h5` in the associated `job` folder. For cases where `job`-associated data may be accessed from multiple sources at the same time or other instances where multiple files may be preferred to one large file, :py:attr:`Job.stores` should be used instead of :py:attr:`Job.data`.

Author: > Do we want to add a line that says something like:
> 
> Data written to `job.stores['key_name']` will be saved into the job workspace, in the file `key_name.h5`.

Yes. I think that would be a good idea.

> Data written with :py:attr:`Job.data` is stored in a file named `signac_data.h5` in the associated `job` folder. For cases where `job`-associated data may be accessed from multiple sources at the same time or other instances where multiple files may be preferred to one large file, :py:attr:`Job.stores` should be used instead of :py:attr:`Job.data`.

Author: I added a few extra lines to introduce `job.data` vs `job.stores` so readers know what to expect for this section.

Reading and Writing data
-----------------------

An example of storing data:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> job = project.open_job(statepoint)
    >>> job.data['x'] = np.ones([10, 3, 4])

Just like the job *state point* and *document*, individual keys may be accessed either as attributes or through a functional interface, *e.g.*.

To access data as attributes:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.x[:]

To access data as a key:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data['x'][:]

Through a functional interface:

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.get('x')[:]

.. tip::

>      Use the :py:meth:`Job.data.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with python's `built-in dictionaries <https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.get>`_. 

Reviewer 2: Please also make this change in the job document docs (further up in this file) and any other place it appears. We shouldn't hard-code links to the Python docs since we have intersphinx configured.
```suggestion
     Use the :py:meth:`Job.data.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with Python's built-in dictionaries (see :py:meth:`dict.get`). 
```

    
Accessing arrays
----------------

All values stored in :attr:`job.data` are returned as copies, except for arrays, which are accessed *by reference* and not automatically copied into memory.
That is important to enable the storage of massive arrays that do not necessarily fit into memory.

> For fast and effient data access, NumPy slicing syntax may be used to access data. Here are a few examples with outputs omitted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For fast and efficient data access, NumPy slicing syntax may be used to access data. Here are a few examples with outputs omitted:
```

   
.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> with job.data:
    ...     job.data.x[0, 0, 0]
    ...     job.data.x[1:3, 0, :]
    ...     job.data.x[:, 1, 3]
    
To load entire arrays to memory, NumPy slicing syntax may be used:
 
.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.x[:]

You can also create an explicit memory copy of the entire array using the copy-operator ``[()]``:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.x[()]

Data organization
-----------------

> The `HDF5`_ format which :attr:`job.data` was built around allows for hierarchical orgaization of data. Data may be stored in folder-like *groups*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `HDF5`_ format used by :attr:`job.data` allows for hierarchical orgaization of data. Data may be stored in folder-like *groups*:
```

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> job.data['group/subgroup_1'] = np.ones([10, 3, 2])
    >>> job.data['group/subgroup_2'] = np.ones([10, 1, 2])

> Data may be accessed as attributes, keys, or through a functional interface. The following examples are all equivelant:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data may be accessed as attributes, keys, or through a functional interface. The following examples are all equivalent:
```

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> with job.data:
    ...     job.data.group.subgroup_1[:]
    ...     job.data['group/subgroup_1'][:]
    ...     job.data.get('group/subgroup_1')[:]
    

> Acessing keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accessing keys
```

--------------

*Groups* and keys in :attr:`job.data` behave similarly to dictionaries. To view the keys in a group:

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> print(list(job.data.keys()))
    ['x', 'group']
    >>> print(list(job.data.group.keys()))
    ['subgroup_1', 'subgroup_2']

> To test for keys in a group:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check if keys exist in a group:
```

Job Data Storage
================
Large numerical or text data can be stored in the :py:attr:`Job.data` container, which is an instance of :class:`signac.H5Store`. 
This container uses a file in `HDF5`_ format to store array-like or dictionary-like information.
Like the :py:attr:`Job.document`, this information can be accessed using key-value pairs.
Unlike the :py:attr:`Job.document`, :attr:`Job.data` is not searchable.
.. _`HDF5`: https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/HDF5

Job associated data may be stored through :py:attr:`Job.data` or :py:attr:`Job.stores`.
This section will focus on examples and usage of :py:attr:`Job.data`.

> Data written with :py:attr:`Job.data` is stored in a file named ``signac_data.h5`` in the associated `job` folder.

Reviewer: I don't think that the word "job" requires any special markup. We could maybe use `*job*`, but single ticks are improper syntax either way. (also in other places)

Data written with :py:attr:`Job.stores['key_name']` is stored in a file named ``key_name.h5``.
For cases where `job`-associated data may be accessed from multiple sources at the same time or other instances where multiple files may be preferred to one large file, :py:attr:`Job.stores` should be used instead of :py:attr:`Job.data`.

> Further discussion of :py:attr:`Job.stores` is provided in the folling section, Job Stores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further discussion of :py:attr:`Job.stores` is provided in the following section, Job Stores.
```

Reviewer: I think it would also be good to add a link to that section.

Reading and Writing data

> -----------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
------------------------
```

Reviewer: Sphinx should actually complain about that.

Reviewer 2: Yes, Sphinx will throw a warning about this. I recommend rendering the docs locally and looking at them to ensure the formatting is what you want and to check for warnings.

An example of storing data:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> job = project.open_job(statepoint)
    >>> job.data['x'] = np.ones([10, 3, 4])

Just like the job *state point* and *document*, individual keys may be accessed either as attributes or through a functional interface, *e.g.*.

To access data as attributes:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.x[:]

To access data as a key:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data['x'][:]

Through a functional interface:

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.get('x')[:]

.. tip::

>      Use the :py:meth:`Job.data.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with python's `built-in dictionaries      Use the :py:meth:`Job.data.get` method to return ``None`` or another specified default value for missing values. This works exactly like with python's built-in dictionaries (see :py:meth:`dict.get`). 

Reviewer: Looks like some copy & pasting went wrong here.

    
Accessing arrays
----------------

All values stored in :attr:`job.data` are returned as copies, except for arrays, which are accessed *by reference* and not automatically copied into memory.
That is important to enable the storage of massive arrays that do not necessarily fit into memory.

For fast and efficient data access, NumPy slicing syntax may be used to access data. 

> Here are a few examples with outputs omitted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a few examples for accessing a three-dimensional array with outputs omitted:
```

   
.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> with job.data:
    ...     job.data.x[0, 0, 0]
    ...     job.data.x[1:3, 0, :]
    ...     job.data.x[:, 1, 3]
    
To load entire arrays to memory, NumPy slicing syntax may be used:
 
.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.x[:]

You can also create an explicit memory copy of the entire array using the copy-operator ``[()]``:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:

>     ...     x = job.data.x[()]

Reviewer: Is there any difference between `[:]` and `[()]`? If not, we should probably merge these two examples, if yes, then we should point those out.

Reviewer 2: I can't find any reference to the `[()]` syntax on the NumPy or h5py docs. From my tests, it seems to act the same as `[:]`, which is my preference. I don't think I've seen anyone but @csadorf write `[()]` but I think that `[:]` is familiar to most NumPy users.

Reviewer 3: I don't know how these behave for h5py datasets, I've never noticed any difference but I haven't tested extensively. I believe that are some very subtle differences when using these for NumPy arrays, specifically with respect to how they behave for 0-d arrays in older versions of NumPy and whether or not the returned object is a view on the original array or if the original array itself is returned. However, since they both seem to give copies in the h5py case I agree with converging on just `[:]`, which is what is most familiar.

Author: I removed the `[()]` example and kept all of the `[:]` examples. I can add it back if you guys would like

Reviewer 3: I think that's fine.

Reviewer: Ok, so I did my own research. The operators are described here: http://docs.h5py.org/en/latest/high/dataset.html#reading-writing-data

According to those docs, this is the purpose of the `[()]` operator:
> An empty tuple (`()`) to retrieve all data or scalar data

This means that `[()]` and `[:]` are not identical, only the former can be used to copy **both** scalars and arrays and in that sense `[()]` is preferable as a copy-operator. I confirmed this in a minimal test locally.

@klywang Can you clarify this in the docs?

Author: I added some details about `[()]`. I tried to load strings with `[()]`, but I got an error so I included what each operator can and cannot be used to load.

I also inclded a tip about how `job.doc` should be used for scalars rather than `job.data`. Please let me know if that is not an intended use. I can take it off and add some more examples on accessing scalars and strings.

Reviewer 2: @klywang Good work. Thank you for your patience and persistence in re-writing this 2 or 3 times. I think we all learned things about memory management that we didn't know when we started this documentation effort! I am happy with the outcomes and will resolve this conversation.

Data organization
-----------------

> The `HDF5`_ format used by :attr:`job.data` allows for hierarchical orgaization of data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HDF5`_ format used by :attr:`job.data` allows for hierarchical organization of data. 
```

Data may be stored in folder-like *groups*:

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> job.data['group/subgroup_1'] = np.ones([10, 3, 2])
    >>> job.data['group/subgroup_2'] = np.ones([10, 1, 2])

Data may be accessed as attributes, keys, or through a functional interface. 
The following examples are all equivalent:

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: I think there should be a space above the `code-block` directive. (also in other places)

Reviewer 2: To clarify, an empty line (not a spacebar kind of space) is needed above and below `.. code-block:: python`.

That is important to enable the storage of massive arrays that do not necessarily fit into memory.

For fast and efficient data access, NumPy slicing syntax may be used to access data. 
Here are a few examples for accessing a three-dimensional array with outputs omitted:
   
.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> with job.data:
    ...     job.data.x[0, 0, 0]
    ...     job.data.x[1:3, 0, :]
    ...     job.data.x[:, 1, 3]
    
To load entire arrays to memory, NumPy slicing syntax may be used:
 
.. code-block:: python

    >>> with job.data:
    ...     x = job.data.x[:]

NumPy slicing (ie. the ``[:]`` operator) may be used to load array-like and text data.
It cannot be used to load scalar values.
Instead, the explicit memory copy operator ``[()]`` may be used instead of NumPy slicing to load entire arrays or scalars to memory:

.. code-block:: python

    >> with job.data:
    ..      x = job.data.x[()]

A caveat of the explicit memory copy operator ``[()]`` is that it cannot be used to load strings.
Generally, the :py:attr:`job.data` container is intended for large numerical or text data.

> Information which needs to be searchable and scalars should be stored in the :ref:`job document <project-job-document>`.

Reviewer: I don't think we should suggest that scalars should *generally* be stored in the job-doc, however, anything that should be searchable *must* be stored in the job-doc, so I suggest this minor adjustment:
```suggestion
Information which needs to be searchable, typically scalars or smaller text-like data, should be stored in the :ref:`job document <project-job-document>`.
```

    ...     print(job.data.x)

Explicitly opening the underlying file by either using the context manager or the ``open()`` function is required when reading and writing arrays, such as ``numpy.arrays``.

> Please see the **Accessing arrays** section for details on accessing arrays.

Reviewer: Can you use [`:ref:`](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/1.5/markup/inline.html#role-ref) to link to the referenced section?

Author: I'm having trouble linking the reference section. I tried to add the label above the "Accessing array headings" using `.. _accessing-arrays`:
```rst
.. _accessing-arrays:
Accessing arrays
----------------

All values stored in :attr:`job.data` are returned as copies, except for arrays, which are accessed *by reference* and not automatically copied into memory.
That is important to enable the storage of massive arrays that do not necessarily fit into memory.
```

Then add the reference like this it using `:ref:`
```rst
Please see the :ref:`accessing arrays <accessing-arrays>` section for details on accessing arrays.
```

But when I build the docs, the link does not take you to the correct section. The changes are in commit 49b837f

Reviewer 3: May need a new line after the label.

Author: Reference links works now. Thanks to @vyasr for the tips!

.. warning::

>     It is strongly advised that operations on :py:attr:`Job.data` are not performed in parallel, to avoid data corruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is recommended to use [file locks](https://pypi.org/project/filelock/) when accessing HDF5-files in parallel, *i.e.*, from multiple operations that are independent from each other.
```
I recently learned about the recommendation for *affirmative tone* as part of the [Python documentation guide](https://devguide.python.org/documenting/#affirmative-tone). I suggest that we slightly adjust this warning accordingly.

As a side note, eventually we should probably implement a signac-inherit locking mechanism.
